To display this on a map we have this map screen component which currently just has some dummy content.
And now we need to be able to render an interactive map for this expo again has got us covered.
There you find D.
Map view package.
Now in this behind the scenes uses a package named React Native maps which you can also use in non Expo
apps.
By the way many of these packages can be used in non Expo apps and that's something I will come back
to in the building apps without Expo module.
But for now we can simply conveniently install it by running this command and this will install the
react native maps package.
Then we can use it as we see it here in this example.
By the way also check out the official documentation at this link to see way more usage examples in
there because there you can learn all about how to use this package.
Some examples are also shown here in this module of course.
So let's run Expo install react dash native dash maps to install this package here and this will then
allow us to use various components to render interactive maps.
So let's wait for that to finish and with that finished in the map screen component we can start using
that map.
Now in their to use the map we can import map view from React Native maps or from this package we just
installed and that will allow us to render a map on the screen.
Now how does that work.
Well let's go here into our map screen and instead of returning this view here I'll return a map view
like that.
Now the map view can be a self closing tag.
For now we can later also add some markers in there but for now that's just rendered like this.
And now you need to configure this map view to be precise.
It needs a region for up which tells it where it should be focused on when it loads.
So which map part or which part of the world it should focus on when it loads.
So we need to create such a region here and all stored in a constant named map or region and the region
is actually an object with four properties and you have to name them like this latitude and not let
but really latitude written out long etude
latitude Delta and long hued Delta.
The delta is basically set to soon factor because this describes well how much space you can see around
the center which you describe with these two points.
So that describes a point together with the two deltas.
It describes a surface.
So now here we can start with some dummy values before we.
Then later also make sure that we can pre populate this.
So here I'll set this to dummy value of thirty seven point seventy eight and minus one hundred twenty
two dot for free which is in the Bay Area round the Google headquarters and here latitude Delta will
take zero dot 0 9 2 2 and then Syria at 0 4 2 1.
I've found that this works quite well as a region.
Of course you can experiment with these numbers but then you can pass in this map region here.
Now this should render a map on the screen.
Now we just need to be able to reach it and for that.
Let me go back to the location picker and I want to reach it in two different ways.
One is with the help of a button which I didn't add yet besides to get user location but now I won't
have a second button which should sit next to the first one so I'll add a view to wrap both and then
move this button here and have a second button in there and this button will generally be configured
in the same way but I will say pick on map and of course I'll trigger a different method.
Different function here I want to trigger a function which is to pick on map handler and all therefore
use this year.
And that's one way of selecting this the other way of selecting this or off going to the map is by clicking
on the map preview before I implement this let me quickly style this view that holds the two buttons.
I'll give it a style identifier of actions and then down their actions can be configured in a relatively
straightforward way.
I want to have the item sit next to each other so flex direction will be a row not column justify content
can be space around to distribute the available free space around both buttons all take a width of 100
percent for this row and that's actually it.
Now with that I have my buttons here.
Now we need to make sure that we can also tap the map preview for that that we go to map preview and
actually wrap this not in a view but in a touchable component here I'll just use touchable opacity.
Of course you could also go for a different and touchable components based on the platform you're running
on.
I want to keep this relatively straightforward so I'll just replace this view here with touchable opacity
have my style here.
That's fine but also of course have to on press handler and there I want to trigger a function which
I expect to get from outside wire props.
I'll just call this on Press 2 but you could give this prop any name you want.
This now allows us to add on press prop on the map preview.
So here in the location picture I can listen to you on press on the map preview and there of course
I want to trigger the same function as when I click on the button down there.
I want a trigger to pick on map handler.
So that's what I do.
Now the pick on map handler should simply go to the map screen right.
So in there we can say props navigation navigate map and that's it for the second.
So if we now saved as we should be able to reach his full screen interactive map where we can select
the place yet but at least we can view it.
So now if I click on the plus here and then pick on map I get an error.
The Y stat Well that's totally unrelated to native modules you might remember that the navigation probe
is only available on components which are directly loaded as screens which to location picker of course
isn't there.
There are various workarounds.
There would be a higher order component we can use.
We can also install a react navigation specific hooks package.
But here I'll take a simple approach and just make sure that I have an obligation prop on location picker
by going to the new place screen which is where a do used location figure.
And there I'll set this navigation prop and forward prop stock navigation which I here do have a way
lable because this is a component directly loaded through a navigator.
So now I'm just forwarding access to my navigation props with that if we now go back and click this
we do load this map here or at least a map screen.
But where is the map.
Well the maps invisible because and that's important for your map you need to add a style and here I'll
add style star map and it can be a very simple style but you just need to define how big it should be
because by default it will not occupy any space.
So by just setting flex to one year and tallying it it should take all the space it gets just by doing
that you will make sure that you see a map.
So now with that if you click on this here is our map getting loaded now also worth noting on ISIS you
automatically use Apple Maps though you can also use Google Maps there if you want to do your official
docs tell you how on Android you always use google maps.
So you're right click on pick on map.
We will also see that once we load that new screen here it is now of course we can also go to that screen
by clicking on our preview here.
That's what we set up right.
So that all the works of course also works on ISIS.
And by the way the animation here isn't super smooth on a real device it will be.
So that's not a problem that's just here on the emulator.
So with that we have our map here and on this map we can scroll again on the simulator it might be a
bit small on the real otherwise it won't be.
So here you can scroll around you will all be able to pinch and soon later you can do all of that and
with that we see the map.
Now the map is usable but of course we can't pick a place on there yet.
So that's the next thing we'll need to change.